EditVar/EditV32/EditV64 and Choose/Choose32/Choose64
(C) 2006-2014 by Bill Stewart (bstewart@iname.com)

Frequently Asked Questions

Last updated: 11 Feb 2014

Q1.     Why are some versions of these programs flagged as
        suspicious/virus/malware by some anti-virus or malware scanners?

Q1A1.   UPX compression seems to trigger false-positives for some programs
        using some anti-virus or anti-malware scanners. As a result, the
        programs are no longer compressed using UPX to try to avoid these
        false-positives.

Q1A2.   Some anti-mailware scanners think the technique that EditV32.exe/
        EditV64.exe uses to set the environment variable in the parent process
        is suspicious. See NotVirus.txt for more information.

Q2.     What language did you use to write these programs?

Q2A1.   The MS-DOS versions are compiled with Turbo Pascal, and the 32-bit and
        64-bit versions are compiled with Free Pascal.

Q3.     I have placed an EditVar or Choose command in a shell script (batch
        file), but when I double-click on the script from Explorer, EditVar or
        Choose doesn't run.

Q3A1.   Any time a script calls an executable file, the executable file that it
        runs must be in a location where the script can find it. When you
        double-click on a script in Windows Explorer, the script's "starting
        directory" may not be the same directory the script is in (this seems
        to depend on the OS version).

        Here are some possible workarounds:

        1.  Copy the program file to a directory in the system path.

        2.  Use the %0\..\ syntax to run the .EXE file from inside the script;
            e.g. '%0\..\choose32' instead of just 'choose32'.

            The %0\..\ shorthand works because %0 expands to the script's file
            name, and \..\ means "the parent directory." Since %0 includes the
            file name itself, the \..\ "tricks" the command shell into thinking
            the script file's name is a directory, and thus points to the
            parent directory of a non-existent directory, which is the same
            directory that the script is in.

            See Microsoft Knowledge Base article 121387 for more information
            about how they used this syntax to deploy the SMS client software.

        3.  In Windows 2000 and later Cmd.exe, you can use a line like this in
            the script:

            "%~dp0choose32" ...

            The %~dp0 syntax means "return the current script's drive and
            directory, without quotes." The quotes are needed in case the
            directory the script is in (or the script's name itself!) contains
            spaces.

Q4.     Input redirection doesn't work...

Q4A1.   The MS-DOS versions (EditVar.exe and Choose.exe) use the system BIOS
        function (INT 10h) to read the keyboard, and this function call does
        not support input redirection.

        The console input handler in the Win32 and Win64 versions do not
        support input redirection.

Q5.     Why is the MS-DOS version of Choose.exe so slow on the Windows NT
        platform (NT/2000/XP/etc.)?

Q5A1.   MS-DOS programs are fully emulated and displayed inside a Win32 console
        session on the Windows NT platform. This has an important ramification
        on how the program is presented on the screen in a console window.

        Most MS-DOS programs were not designed to handle the large number of
        screen rows and/or columns that are common in Windows NT console
        sessions. If NT detects that the MS-DOS program is expecting a small
        screen size, it will temporarily resize the console window to a smaller
        size to accommodate the MS-DOS program. This imposes a considerable
        performance penalty.

        You can observe this behavior by creating a shortcut to Cmd.exe and
        defining an unusual (e.g. anything larger that 80x50) window size in
        the shortcut. Upon opening the shortcut, run Choose.exe and observe how
        the OS resizes the console window temporarily while Choose.exe is
        running. After you press Y or N to end the program, the OS will resize
        the window back to its previous dimensions.

        As a side note, the Command.com executable on the Windows NT platform
        is merely a "stub" program that passes nearly every command onto the
        underlying system command interpreter (Cmd.exe), and only includes a
        very small set of internal commands.

Q6.     My command-line parameters aren't working properly...

Q6A1.   Try explicitly separating the parameters with spaces, and for the
        parameters that need arguments, separate the parameter's argument from
        the parameter with a space. If the parameter's argument includes
        embedded spaces or tabs, enclose it in quotes.

Q7.     How do I use quotes in a prompt?

Q7A1.   You can use either single or double quotes when specifying a
        command-line parameter that contains spaces or tabs. If you want to
        includes quotes as part of a parameter, use the alternate quote
        character (' or ") to include them. For example:

        'Press "Enter" to continue...'

        It's currently not possible to include both types of quotes in a single
        string.

Q8.     EditVar or Choose don't seem to return a correct exit code, or the If
        Errorlevel command isn't working...

Q8A1.   "If Errorlevel n" really means "If Errorlevel >= n", so make sure to
        test exit codes in descending order.

Q9.     What don't EDITVAR.EXE and CHOOSE.EXE work in x64 Windows?

Q9A1.   Microsoft dropped 16-bit emulation in x64 Windows versions. They do work
        in a DOS virtual machine or DOS emulator such as DOSBox.

Q10.    Why do I get this error message? "Error 216: This version of <program>
        is not compatible with the version of Windows you're running. Check
        your computer's system information to see whether you need a x86
        (32-bit) or x64 (64-bit) version of the program, and then contact the
        software publisher."

Q10A1.  The 32-bit version (EditV32.exe) can only set an environment variable
        when its parent process is also 32-bit, and the 64-bit version
        (EditV64.exe) can only set an environment variable when its parent
        is also 64-bit.

        For example, you can't run EditV32.exe from a 64-bit Cmd.exe prompt,
        and you can't run EditV64.exe from a 32-bit Cmd.exe prompt.
